# comp150-cpd

##Week 1- September 12th

Having moved in on the Saturday and already made some new friends I was raring to get to university to meet even more new people, expand my horizons and most importantly to learn new skills. On the Sunday 11th September we had a “meet your mentor” event where people from our course got to socialise as well as fun activities where we came up with a game idea and of course we got to meet our mentor. Throughout the first week we just got introduced to the services the university offers and what they expect from us. All my course mates and lecturers seemed friendly which helped me to feel comfortable and made me glad as I would be happy to work with them because team work is such a big part of this course. What I learned from this first week is where to access all the online work we have to do and where to check deadlines. The hardest part was finding the right rooms to go to as the university is quite large however we use the same rooms so I won’t get lost anytime soon.

##Week 2 – September 19th
This week was the first proper week as last week was basically inductions. We had our first proper lecture on the Monday; it was about the principles of computing and focused on the history of computation and video games as well as programming languages. The rest of the week we did the Lego Robot Olympiad which consisted of us being put into teams and having to create a robot capable of doing several tasks we were given. It got us all working together which is good because it was almost like what it would be if we were professionals while having the competitive edge of seeing who could do it fastest with the least amount of errors. In my team we all helped to build the robot and played around with it until we thought it was the best we could get then we programmed it on a simple program. The hardest part was getting the robot to be accurate, this took several attempts at programming it and felt quite repetitive at times as when you had the code it all came down to the starting position of the robot which could vary slightly every time but overall I found the whole week enjoyable. As far as I’m aware I could not find a solution to the problem of placing the robot in the same place.

##Week 3 – September 26th 
The week started off with a lecture about loops and variables. We were then tasked with making a bored game on cards that were given to us. The hardest part was none of us had done it before so our time management wasn’t the best so we ended up having to rush it at the end and having to choose ideas people suggest without thinking how they’d work with other ideas we had, it turned out not the best it could have been but we learnt for next time that we needed to keep checking the time. In the afternoon session we had to make up another board game with more cards which were given to us. Time management wasn’t as much of as issue this time because we knew how long we’d have because of the morning session; we managed to make a game that we ended up really liking.  

##Week 4 – October 3rd  
The week started off with a lecture about algorithms and annotations this mainly focused on learning about pseudocode and flowcharts and touched up on loops, I didn’t find this too difficult as it was basically just refreshing my mind about it all. We then learnt about agile game development and how they use scrum which confused me as some of the wording was difficult to grasp but I went home and did some research and I understand it more now. We then were shown how to do some very basic functions on Python which we got taught how to make text in a box then we were told to go and play around with the code and to make Pong which I had no idea how to do that as I haven’t been shown how to yet; this was my biggest challenge this week so my task is to go home and to learn and practice some coding every few days at home so I can get a hang of it a lot easier.

##Week 5 – October 10th   
This week started off with another lecture from Ed this time it was about logic gates and memory which I had a basic understanding of from school. We did a socrative activity on it and I managed to get most of them right and through Ed’s explanations I managed to understand the ones I got wrong. For most of the rest of that week we got introduced to tinkering graphics where we got some basic code and had to manipulate an image to do things, I struggled with this as I had never tinkered with graphics using code before, I resorted to asking my peers to help me and managed to get a basic program working in the end. I used google to try and look through there to see if there were many examples of tinkering graphics with python, there were but the majority of them used libraries we didn’t have on our machines which was annoying. I’m going to go home and spend some time tinkering with graphics and testing out different libraries to gain a broader knowledge of it.

##Week 6 – October 17th   
This week started off with a lecture about algorithm complexities which I found very confusing to begin with but I gained a simple understanding of it, I’m going to read into it to learn more about it. We were given worksheet C for homework but some peers and I had some free time so we tried to do it, we were all really confused and had to ask how to do it in the end and after the explanation it all seemed much easier. I’m still unsure about the Big O notation so I’ll have to look into that more. We had our second tinkering graphics class where we had to design a program to calculate the distance between colours, I was confused at first on how to do it and what it should look like then once I found out it was a lot easier than expected, my biggest challenge this week was tinkering graphics as the code we got given did not work in pygame and it was hard to find help online as they all used modules.

##Week 7 – October 24th   
This week started off with a lecture about object oriented programming which I found very interesting and I liked Ed’s live demonstrations which I found helpful as it showed us how we could make our own programs run smoother, faster and easier to implement changes, we then played around with the code to see what else we could get it to do which is a good way to learn what everything does. I’m currently trying to implement what we got taught into our tinkering graphics project. My partner and I chose a contract for our tinkering graphics project and have begun work on that; I’m starting to find it a little bit easier now but as mentioned above most of the tutorials online use modules which I might download to experiment with and see what other things I can get my graphic to do. 

##Week 8 – October 31st 
The biggest challenge I faced this week was presenting my proposed agile essay question in front on the class. I had spent a long time finding a question I was interested into researching and I had found sources and made an appropriate PowerPoint but when it came to the speaking I froze up, I think this was because first of all my public speaking isn’t very good but I like to rehearse a few days in advance so I know exactly what I’m saying and it helps me a lot if I have notes in my hands which I didn’t, so overall it didn’t go too well as I kept looking at the board and not knowing what to say just picking bits and pieces to say. For future talks I’ll prepare well in advance and be sure to have notes in case I forget what I need to say. 

##Week 9 – November 7th
My biggest challenges this week were trying to implement features into our game development project and the task we were given in tinkering audio. For the game development project I spent a long time trying to implement collisions with the map in the middle but I had no luck however my team mate managed to get some form of collisions working and it turned out better than the original idea, so to try and get better at coding I’m going to spend more time at home learning about coding to expand my knowledge and cater it to what I need to learn. With the tinkering audio module the biggest issue I faced was I was confused of what the actual task was and I ended up doing the wrong thing, however when Mike went over it, it all made sense. 

##Week 10 – November 14th
My biggest challenge yet again was tinkering audio as well as git branching. I am struggling to understand how audio works as it is very mathematics based and since I haven't done maths in over a year it has been a struggle. It relies heavily of your knowledge of waves and how to manipulate them. To fix this issue I'm going to go over old physics note and read over my notes I have on waves and what every part of the wave does. Git branching I found difficult because I've never used it before but to become better at it I'm going to complete the tutorials we got linked in class at home.

##Week 11 – November 21st
My biggest challenge this week was time management as we have so many deadlines coming up, I am worried I won't be able to get everything done in time and up to a standard I am happy with. Another challenge which I need to go home and learn about is the new programming language Ed introduced us to which is C++, since it's different from what we've learned I think I'll try to spend my Christmas holidays watching tutorials and reading up how it works and make some basic programs using it. I feel my progress on my agile essay hasn't been as much as I'd like to as I haven't written a proper academic essay in years, I think the only way to improve on this is just to keep writing them until I pick up the style.

##Week 12 – November 28th
We had the tinkering audio peer review this week which I wasn't happy with as I can't get a sound that I like to work as well as I haven't been making efficient use of version control on GitHub, this is something I need to improve on just by doing a little bit of my projects every night or every other night and upload what I've got and it'll also allow me to be able to sat my tutors for help. As for my progress for the term I feel like I've learnt a lot since the beginning of term but I feel as though I need to do a lot more work in my free time at home as I plan to master C++ next term.

## Term 2
##Week 1 - January 23rd
First week back and we had a worksheet due in for Ed, it was a Fallout hacking minigame. This was what I struggled with the most as we had to do it in C++, a new language I was just learning. To try and learn something to improve I am teaching myself C++ code at home and doing tutorials so I understand how to use it. We had our first product owner meeting and it went well although no progress has been made on the game as of yet and team communication is not the best. To change this I am trying my best to learn to use Unreal as it is a very vast engine with so many components.

##Week 2 - January 30th
This week Brian was teaching us to use Unreal and and taught us about using C++ in Unreal. I followed along with him but at the end of the lesson I am still struggling using C++ in Unreal so I will need to research that. That being said my knowledge and understanding of using blueprints is coming a lot better. We have made some progress on our Comp 160 game however team communication and attendance are still issues so I will message those who don't turn up.

##Week 3 - February 6th
Worksheet B was due in this week, this was my main challenge of the week as it was to make a Mandlebrot set, it involved a lot of mathematics which I'm not the best with anymore. I got it to work but I didn't quite understand it all, although Brian went through some of it which helped. I'm going to have a quick read online about the Mandlebrot to see if that'll help. I started research for my Comp140 game and have come up with a basic idea which I will start concerting soon and an idea for the controller, this will help my Unreal progress as well.

##Week 4 - February 13th
I began work on worksheet C which was due in next week. I had major issues with my Unreal and Visual Studio which gave me an error when trying to make a C++ project (manage to fix it a few days later), so I have done it in blueprints. It was easy enough getting most of it done, the hard part was getting it to fit together. A few class mates and I sat down which made it easier to do. I'm still watching relevant Unreal tutorials to help me with what I want to learn. I attended our supervised studio practice session with the BA's but half of the group didn't turn up and the other half left as the studio was too full this is preventing us from doing work on our game together.

##Week 5 - February 20th
This week we had a lecture on computational creativity, this really stood out for me and I was amazed at what had been created. I went home and looked more into it, I was a bit disappointed that in the lecture we couldn't play around on the iPads and make our own games with the app they had created. What I struggled with the most this week is creating a save game point in Unreal, I left in on the computer and when I went back to it later in the week it was gone, I'm going to try and do it later on at home. Our team communication for our comp160 game isn't the best still so work has been slow.

##Week 6 - February 27th
This week Mike taught us to set up our own servers in our comp160 group, but due to half the group not showing up and we got stuck we decided to join another group to help set their server up. I need to research more into this and try to get my own server set up and more familiar on how they work because this means I could attempt to set up my own online game which I would like to do at some point. We've got some good progress going on the comp160 game but it's too late for the trailer and presentation so we'll have to work really hard for the final submission.

##Week 7 - March 6th

##Career Goals
Once I graduate from university I plan on potentially making a few small games in my free time while travelling the world then later on joining up with a small indie games company and hopefully progressing to work on the programming side of AAA games. I'm working on progressing to get to these goals by learning at university which is teaching me how to code and good practices of game developers which gives me the knowledge I need to be able to develop games. Five key skills that I am struggling with are essay writing skills, my use of version control, my presenting skills, prioritizing tasks and lastly independent studying. The five smart actions can be found in my CPD essay which goes over them in detail.
